# Celebrity Image Classification
# 1. Introduction
I am just beginning to learn to do end to end machine learning project or data science project for celebrity image classification. During this project, I tried to classify an image of my favourite five famous celebrities AUNG SANG SUU KYI,MALALA YOUSAFZAI,MICHELLE OBAMA,OPRAH WINFREY and PRINCESS DIANA. While working on this project I had learned the following

1) How to build end to end machine learning or data science project
2) Use Opencv library for face and eyes detection
3) data cleaning using opencv face detection and feature engineering using wavelet transforms
4) Model building using SVM, logistic regression, random  forest
5) Model fine tunning using gridsearchcv
6) Export model to a file and write python flask server around it that can server http requests generated by UI
7) Build ui using HTML,CSS,javascript and JQuery 

# 2. Data Collection
There are 4 different ways of collecting data for our project,
I had used an extension called fatkun. You can download that from google and enable it as extension and you can download bulb image in a one go.
# 3. Data Cleaning
In this project, I am going to clean images that I had downloaded from google i.e from fatkun to train our classifier. Here,we mostly identify a person in a photo with a face. Hence we will use opencv and a technique called haar cascades to detect if a face and two eyes are clearly visible or not. If they are than we keep the image otherwise we discard the image. Majority of the data cleaning work will be done using python code but there will be some cleaning work that we will have to do manually. 
# 4. Feature Engineering
Here, I had used cropped images and apply wavelet transform to extract meaning features that can help with image identification.USing wavelet transform and a raw pixel image we will create our X and use class labels as y. These X and y will be used for model training. Feature engineering techniques in this project enhanced my understanding on how they can be used to create powerful prediction function.
# 5. Model Training
Once I got the X and y after applying feature engineering techniques, I created simple SVM model to get a feel of how it is going to perform on image classification. We will then use GridSearchCV and try different models with different hyper parameters to come up with a best model that can give us maximum accuracy. We will use sklearn classification_report to check the performance. Once we select best model based on GridSearchCV we can evaluate it on X_test and y_test to get a feel of how it is going to perform in production. Confusion matrix is used with seaborn visualization to get an understanding of classification errors for each of the classes. In the end we export the model to a file using joblib
# 6. Flask Server
Python flask is a light weight web server. In this project, I used flask server that will use the trained model and perform image classification. UI will talk to this backend server and perform image classification task for our sports person identification project. 
# 7. Building a Website
I had build a website for this project. This website have an area where someone can drag and drop an image of a person and it will identify that person. The image classification is restricted to only 5 classes or 5  people. I had used HTML/CSS/Javascript for this project. JQuery is used to make http calls to python flask backend. 
# 8.Deployed
After the project website is launched suucessfully, then it has been deployed in the github.
